As you're turning there, I do want to encourage you to pray for a couple other folks.
I had some correspondents this afternoon with Matt and Lydia, and they are both dealing
with some sickness, not able to be here this morning or this evening, but they do send
their greetings.
And so if you'd pray for them, I know they'd appreciate that.
Do continue to pray for Doug Cook and for his full recovery, if you would.
Genesis chapter number 6, we'll be looking at verses 1 through 7.
And as you notice in the bulletin this evening, the title for the message, the wickedness
of man, was great.
I'll read the first seven verses we'll get in the message this evening.
And it came to pass when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were
born unto them, that the sons of God saw the daughters of men, that they were fair.
They took them wives of all which they chose, and the Lord said, My spirit shall not always
strive with man, for that he is also flesh, yet his days shall be in a hundred and twenty
years.
There were giants in the earth in those days, and also after that, when the sons of God
came in unto the daughters of men, and they bared children to them, the same became mighty
men which were of old, men of renown.
God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of
the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually, and it repented the Lord that he had made
man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart.
The Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth, both man
and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air, for it repenteth me that
I have made them.
Isn't that a sad verse of Scripture?
It really is.
And as we look at this passage of Scripture, we are mindful that in our previous two studies,
we discussed the ungodly line of Cain, and we discussed that in Genesis chapter number
four, really looking from verse number 15 down through verse number 24.
And then we looked at the godly line of Seth, and we noticed that from Genesis chapter number
five, as we get our study of Genesis chapter number six, we are confronted with a rapidly
growing population.
God tells us about the great wickedness that is prevalent during this particular time,
and he announces his impending judgment upon creation.
I'm mindful, and we've used these verses in the past, but as we look at Genesis four,
five, and six, and lead up to what's going to take place, of course, the announcement
of the destruction here, and as we get into chapter seven and eight, dealing with the
great flood, the global flood, where God does indeed bring his judgment upon his creation,
we find that God gave us the truth in the New Testament.
If you hold your hand here in Matthew, excuse me, in Genesis six, and turn to the book of
Matthew in chapter number 24, and consider the words of Jesus Christ, as he was ministering,
he was asked questions, of course, often, and as he's near the end of his earthly ministry,
if you were to look at the timeline here in Matthew 24, of course, it was just in a short
period of time when Jesus would go to the cross of Calvary to pay for your sin and mine,
that he would be buried in a borrowed tomb, and he'd rise in victory, and conquering sin,
death, and the grave, and then, of course, the last chapter, the last portion of Matthew
28, giving to us the instruction for the church, and we find here in Matthew chapter 24, in
verse number 36, the Bible says, but of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels
of heaven, but my Father only, notice in verse 37, but as the days of Noah were, so
shall also the coming of the Son of Man be.
So we see that God, the Lord Jesus Christ, is giving us some reference here in Matthew
24, as to how we can understand the signs of the times, if you will, and he references
back to this historical account that we're looking at this evening in Genesis chapter
number six, he says, as in the days of Noah, notice in verse 38, for as in the days that
were before the flood, notice what they were doing, they were eating and drinking, marrying
and giving in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ark, and knew not until
the flood came and took them all away, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be.
You know, what's interesting is that the Bible tells us that Noah was a preacher of righteousness,
that not only was he building, preparing the ark, but he was preaching impending judgment
that was coming because of the wickedness of mankind, yet they ignored the message,
they dismissed the prophet, they did not take heed to that which was delivered, and we find
that it was in that day, that the Bible tells us here, that Noah entered into the ark, and
it was at that time that the flood came.
It was too late for those individuals, for the humans that were populating the earth,
that great population growth, the rapid growth that we see in Genesis chapter number six
that's described to us, we find that it was then that God shut the ark, we read in Genesis
seven and eight, and when that flood comes, that God shuts them in, just eight people
that would be saved alive, and there was no hope of survival for the rest of the world's
population, judgment came.
Can I tell you, in like manner, there are preachers today, me being one of them, that
stand up and proclaim a message that Jesus is coming.
He's coming, and he's coming again.
His coming is absolutely assured.
We have the truth of the word of God, and we stand upon the truth of the word of God,
but you know one of the problems that we face in our nation today, in our world today, is
that people aren't giving heed to the message.
Just as they were in Noah's day, Noah was a preacher of righteousness, but they went
about doing their mundane, normal things of life.
They were eating and drinking, they were marrying and they were given in marriage, and they
were just going through life and not listening to the preacher.
This day that we live in America, you know there used to be a lot more preaching on the
second coming of Christ than there is today, but can I tell you whether there's a lot of
preaching or a little bit of preaching, the message is true that Jesus is coming, and
can I tell you this morning that there are more people in our world today that will listen
to the weatherman saying that a storm is coming, and they'll do something about it, but the
preacher stands up and says, Jesus is coming, and it's like, oh yeah, that's okay, thanks.
Am I wrong?
Come on.
You know these weather people, man, it's the best job in the world.
You can be wrong like 80% of the time, and you get a paycheck, and you stay employed,
it's amazing, right?
They tell us all sorts of things, and we, listen, how many times, I grew up in North
Carolina, it doesn't snow a whole lot in North Carolina, amen, and listen, it doesn't snow
a whole lot here, but they tell you a snowstorm's coming, what do you do?
Man, people are buying milk and bread, somebody said, milk and bread, I want to eat some beef
and some chicken, amen, I'm not just interested in milk and bread, but you go ahead and you
go over to Walmart, Shopper's Giant, wherever you shop, and you go there after the weatherman
sits on the TV and tells you that there's a storm coming, and you'll find that the shelves
are empty.
Am I wrong?
Come on.
When the preacher says that Jesus is coming, can I tell you, it not only should affect
the lost world, it should affect God's people.
Jesus is coming, hallelujah, it should affect how we live our lives, but we find here, and
the message isn't on the second coming of Christ, but that's for free, amen, the reality
is that we find here that he says, as in the days of Noah, he says, so shall also the coming
of the Son of Man be.
Jesus said, I will come again.
I said it this morning during our Sunday school lesson when I was speaking about the confidence
that we have in the word of God, I have absolute confidence in every prophecy that is yet to
be fulfilled, that it will be fulfilled just as Jesus, as God said.
I believe with every fiber of my being that one day the trumpet of the Lord is going to
sound.
By the way, I hope I'm still here, wouldn't that be wonderful?
Praise the Lord.
But I'm just as confident that if I see death before that trumpet sounds, that the dead
in Christ shall rise first, amen?
It is a principle, it is a truth of the word of God.
And this evening, as we look at the text of scripture in Genesis chapter number six, we
find that Jesus uses the historical account of this time leading up to the flood.
Before the flood came, he's giving us the description of the behavior of mankind, of
what's going on in the society.
Notice with me back in Genesis chapter number six in the first five verses, I want you to
notice the corruption of mankind, the corruption of mankind.
I told somebody this morning, I only have one speed and it's fast.
And I wore out my voice this morning and here I am getting through the introduction and
just going ahead and preaching and wearing out my voice, so you bear with me.
I told my kids, they kept telling me all afternoon, daddy don't talk, daddy don't talk.
And it was tough to not sing.
And I didn't sing a lot of the songs this evening because I was trying to preserve my
voice but man, I love to sing the great hymns and how they minister to our heart.
But let's look here in the first five verses, we see the corruption of mankind.
By the way, I'm not drinking coffee here, this is some honey lemon water.
How many of you ever try honey lemon water?
Holly, I mean, I think it's working.
She made it for me and I kept saying, honey, that's enough honey.
I don't like honey.
It's brutal to drink this.
Pierre said, is it working?
I said, well, I think, but I can tell you that coffee with cream and sugar ain't going
to help me.
And so I'm not drinking coffee, just some honey lemon water and hoping to be able to
get through it this evening.
notice the ungodly marriages in verse one and two it says and it came it came
to pass when men began to multiply on the face of the earth and daughters were
born unto them that the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were
fair notice it says and they took them wives of all which they chose the Bible
tells us again in verse number four there were giants in the earth in those
days and also after that when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men
and they were bare children to them the same became mighty men which were of old
men of renown I mentioned here that the corruption of mankind we find the
evidence of these ungodly marriages the sons of God that are mentioned in verse
number two that would be indicative in show and sharing with us the truth of
what we read and studied in chapter number five the godly line of Seth we
studied the fifth chapter in our last study and we find that God provides us
with the record of the godly line of Seth and we find here that the Bible
says in verse two that the sons of God saw the daughters of men so we want to
try to describe those two groups of people and determine who they are the
sons of God the daughters of men the sons of God referring to the godly line
of Seth the daughters of men referring to the ungodly line of Cain now as we
would understand this truth I will readily admit to you right at the
beginning here this evening that this is one of the most debated passages
scripture in all of the Bible and we find that there's all kinds of ideas as
to who these two groups of people were who the sons of God were who the
daughters of men were I've already revealed to you what I believe and I'm
gonna share with you why I believe what I believe the one of the other I guess I
would use the word popular beliefs and if you have a study Bible the study
Bible probably that you hold in your hands will give you some information as
to what that author believes that these groups of people refer to whoever your
study Bible is from they'll put their thoughts in there at the bottom and give
their commentary you might you might want to remember that the study Bible
the verses are inspired but the notes are not and that is just the opinion of
whoever that person is and we find here that one of the popular beliefs is that
the sons of God were angels angels that came and cohabit it with man you say
pastor why don't you believe that well I don't believe that for a couple of
reasons but let me give you one here we already mentioned in Matthew chapter 24
turn over to Matthew 22 remember in Matthew 24 when we read that passage of
scripture a moment ago God told us what was taking place during the days of Noah
it says this that they were eating and drinking marrying and giving in marriage
remember in Genesis 6 turn over there to Matthew 22 and I'll get there in just a
moment in Matthew chapter 22 but in Genesis chapter 6 it says in verse 2
that the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair notice and
they took them wives of all which they chose Jesus says that they were marrying
and giving in marriage but Jesus also says this in Matthew chapter number 22
he's being asked this question it's actually an interesting dialogue we
don't have time to look at the entirety but it really starts in verse 23 down
through verse number 33 of Matthew 22 and it's in that time when the Sadducees
come to Jesus and they begin to ask him this question and the question that
they're asking him they preface the question by saying this in verse number
23 the same day came to him the Sadducees would say that there's no
resurrection and asked him saying master Moses said if a man die having no
children his brother shall marry his wife and raise up seed unto his brother
now they give him this story there were with us seven brethren the first when he
had married a wife deceased and having no issue left his wife unto his brother
likewise the second also in the third unto the seventh and last of all the
woman died also so the picture that they paint is that they're these brothers
they all have this this wife and none of them have children so the next brother
marries and there's no seed there's no children that come and then the woman
dies also they say this in verse 28 therefore in the resurrection whose wife
shall she be of the seven for they all had her now it's interesting because the
Sadducees didn't even believe in the resurrection amen that's why they're sad
you see that's what they say in Bible College that that they're sad because
they don't believe in the resurrection they're Sadducees but the reality is
that they did not believe in the resurrection and yet they say in the
resurrection whose wife shall she be notice the answer of Jesus in verse
number 29 he says you ye do err not knowing the scriptures nor the power of
God for in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage but
notice this are as the angels of God in heaven now as we notice the error of
these Sadducees that Jesus is speaking to he speaks to them and he points out
that their error is that they didn't believe in the resurrection and that's
really what he's dealing with is that they're coming to him with this pretense
and they're coming giving him this analogy this hypothetical and they give
him this hypothetical they're trying to catch him and twist things up and so on
and so forth and he says you do err not knowing the scriptures in a sister
passage of scripture he talks about the fact that he's the God of Abraham and of
Isaac and how that he is the God of the living not the God of the dead and we
find here that he says in verse number 30 they neither marry nor are given in
marriage but are as the angels of God in heaven what were they doing in the days
of Noah they were marrying and they were giving in marriage according to Matthew
what Jesus said in Matthew chapter 24 according to what the the account tells
us in Genesis chapter number 6 in verse number 2 they were marrying and so we
find here that there's this understanding I believe this evening
that the sons of God being the godly line of Seth the daughters of men being
the ungodly line of Cain and so this this inner marriage if you will what's
happening is I believe the enemy is seeking to corrupt the godly line this
warning is given by the way throughout the Old Testament we find that
throughout the entirety of the Old Testament what was the promise that
Jesus that God gave in Genesis chapter number 3 I will put enmity between the
woman and or between thy seed and her seed he says this that it shall bruise
thy head and thou shalt bruise his heel and when he talks about the seed we
talked about this many times already that throughout the Old Testament really
the attack of Satan is on the promised Messiah and he's seeking to corrupt the
seed in any way that he can all of the attacks the time in which Haman sought
to destroy all of the Jews it wasn't so much that Haman was just simply upset
with Mordecai it was the fact that he was influenced by the devil by the enemy
and he wanted to just get rid of the entirety of the Jewish race so that
Messiah the promised Messiah could not come through that seed I'm thankful that
our God is greater amen I'm thankful that the promised Messiah did in fact
come and he's already come and he's fulfilled those prophecies and those
promises we find here that throughout the Old Testament there is this desire
on the part of Satan remember the situation with Balak and you in Balaam
and all of that situation and they're seeking to corrupt the children of
Israel corrupt that seed so there is warning given about this inner marriage
and about this influence and corruption that could take place in Deuteronomy
chapter number 7 notice over there if you will for an Old Testament warning
and instruction God says this through his man Moses with regard to the
children of Israel as they would prepare to enter into the land of promise they'd
go into the land of promise and there were inhabitants in that land and God
gives them a very direct warning with regard to marriages in Deuteronomy 7 in
verse number 3 he says neither shalt thou make marriages with them thy
daughter thou shalt not give unto his son nor his daughter shalt thou take
into thy son why for they what's that next word will they will turn away thy
son from following me that they may serve other gods so will the anger of
the Lord be kindled against you and destroy thee suddenly you think that's
a pretty important instruction that God gave through Moses to the children of
Israel absolutely this thing of marriage is important and in Deuteronomy 7 verses
3 through 4 and God uses Moses to warn the children of Israel that when you
enter into the land don't have this intermarriage do not have your daughters
marrying their sons nor your daughters given or they're taking their daughters
for your sons this thought not to be why for they will turn away thy son from
following me can I tell you that the proof is in the pudding you can read the
nation of Israel's history and you can see where when they violated this
principle that it's exactly what happened by the way one of those that we
would call the wise man Solomon he had a lot of good instruction that he gave
did he not but the Bible says that he married many strange women that's what
it says the Bible tells us of some of the wives that he had that they served
other gods and it tells us that he set up places for them to worship
Right, come on
And you know what it tells us that they caused his heart to turn away
Yeah, that's what happened. You can read it in the life of Solomon
We can look at other illustrations this evening
But we find the principle that is given in the New Testament
The principle is given there as well turn to the book of 1st Corinthians if you will
We'll look at a verse in 1st Corinthians
Look at a portion of scripture there in 2nd Corinthians actually just a verse or two, but look at 1st Corinthians 7 first
and
Notice here what is said in 1st Corinthians chapter number 7 now those of you that are familiar with 1st Corinthians chapter number 7
The Apostle Paul is answering a question that was given to him from the believers in Corinth with regard to marriage
He's answering the question that they had asked and he's providing discourse
Look with me if you will at verse number 39
The Bible says here the wife is bound by the law as long as her husband liveth
But if her husband be dead she is at liberty to be married to whom she will what's the next four words?
only in the Lord
What's the principle don't marry a lost person?
Right. So he's saying it says he's talking here about marriage
He says that the wife is bound by the long the law as long as her husband liveth
But if her husband be dead, she is at liberty to be married to whom she will
Only in the Lord 2nd Corinthians turn over there if you will in chapter number 6 and I believe
That the passage that's before us in 2nd Corinthians chapter number 6 is a passage of Scripture that has broad
Application the application in Genesis chapter number 6 that we're gonna look at this principle that is contained here in this portion of Scripture
Yes, I believe it can be applied to marriage
It can be applied to all sorts of things though going into business with somebody listen
If you're a Christian, you're not going to business with a lost person. It's just gonna cause you difficulty
It's just because you're unequally yoked
It's just gonna cause you trouble and difficulty and you're gonna have a certain direction that you want to go to please the Lord
With that which God has given you but they're gonna have a different direction that they want to go and it's gonna cause difficulty
Along the way but with regard to the subject matter of marriage notice in verse 14
But be it says this being not unequally yoked together with unbelievers
For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness and what communion hath light with darkness
what Concord hath Christ with Belial or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel and
What agreement hath the temple of God with idols for you are the temple of the Living God as God has said I will dwell
In them and walk in them and I will be their God and they shall be my people
Wherefore he says this come out from among them and be separate saith the Lord and touch not the unclean thing and I will
Receive you and we find here that the principle is given
There's an Old Testament warning with these ungodly unions of marriage of this marrying
There's this New Testament warning that's given and we find that it's imperative that we understand this evening the importance of this
I remember when I was in
younger when I was in Bible college and things there were people that would
they'd have a co-worker that they worked with that that wasn't saved and they would entertain the thought of
Getting into some kind of relationship with this lost person and saying this well, you know, I can lead them to Christ
Listen relationship evangelism is just not a good idea
It's just not it's just not the way that you want to approach things if you're a believer
Then you need to be sure that you're not even
Entertaining the idea for even a moment of time of marrying an unbeliever. I
Know people that have I know where God has blessed and I know where it's ended in tragedy
And the best counsel that you can receive from the Word of God is that you seek to marry someone that is that is born
Again, that's saved that you have that bond in Christ. Listen. We believe this evening that God is is all-knowing
He's all wise God does all things. Well
the reality is that you would do best to just go ahead and pray that God brings you a spouse and
not go and try to have some kind of
Relationship evangelism going on. That's not the idea. Amen. That's just a side note as well this evening
We go back to Genesis chapter number 6
Notice many of those that would entertain the idea of the fact that this must be
Angels that is referred to as the sons of God
They referenced that which is said in verse number 4 with regard to the Giants that were in the earth in those days
But if you read Genesis 6 in verse number 4 the the plain
language of the verse of Scripture says this there were Giants in the earth in those days and
Also after that
When the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men and they bear children to them the same became mighty men
which were of old men of renown as
You read the text of Scripture you read the progression that's here. There's nothing in Genesis 6 for that would
necessitate that there was some
Cohabitation between angels and men by the way, we've already mentioned that Jesus said they don't marry
But he said that in that time in the days of Noah they were marrying and giving in marriage say pastor
Why are you harping on this? It's a big deal. Actually
There's a lot of people out there that that would interpret this
I believe and I'm saying this based on my study of the scriptures that they would interpret it in a different way
And they would talk about the angels
But the problem is that if Jesus says as it was in those days
So shall it be in the day when when he's coming back that means that nonsense is gonna happen again
I don't believe it
That that cohabitation thing. That's they're they're they're not giving in marriage
They're not and by the way, it says there that the sons of God
Well, if they were fallen angels, they wouldn't be called the sons of God
Would you agree?
if they were
The if they were the sons of God the angels that did not rebel they wouldn't participate in such activity
So there's lots of reasons here, but it's important for us to understand what it is there there's no
Necessitating or no nothing of necessity in Genesis 6 and verse number 4 by the way after the flood, right?
God destroyed all the earth all the people. It was just Noah his wife his three sons and their wives eight people
But yet when the children of Israel get into the land of Canaan and the spies go out. What do they say?
We saw the Giants in the land the sons of Anak
Well, where did they come from
Well, there were Giants in the land prior to what's going on here in this text of Scripture and there were times
It's within the DNA code. That's how God listened. There are midgets and there are Giants
It's just all within the DNA code. There are little dogs and there are big dogs. There are little people there
How many of you ever seen a midget? I'm not being unkind but you we've seen midgets, right?
You can go to the Ripley's believe it or not. I think the tallest man
I can't think of what his name is right now at the top of my head, but he's like eight feet nine inches or something
You ever go stand next to him is
Goliath he's over nine feet tall, right? And so there's no
Necessity from this text of Scripture that it would have to be some
Unreasonable kind of cohabitation. So we see the corruption of mankind through these ungodly marriages number two
We see the corruption of mankind through unbridled lust
In verse number five the Bible says this and God saw
That the wickedness of man was great in the earth
Notice, it says that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil
Continually this unbridled lust that characterized
The times leading up to the flood in the days of Noah the corruption of mankind through this ungodly
Union or marriage and then through these this unbridled lust turn over if you will to the book of 2nd Timothy and look at chapter
Number three and I want you to notice that even as we would stay consistent with the message of what Jesus said in Matthew
with regard to
For as in the days of Noah, he said that these things were taking place. He says so also
Shall the coming of the Son of Man be and it would be in the same way in the same manner and we find that
This unbridled lust and 2nd Timothy 3 and verses 1 through 4. Now Paul tells Timothy this he said this know
Also that in the last days perilous times shall come notice how he describes it for men should be lovers of their own selves
covetous boasters proud
blasphemers disobedient to parents unthankful unholy
verse 3 without natural affection truce breakers false accusers
incontinent fierce
Advisors of those that are good traitors heady high-minded lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God
We find that Jude gives the admonition as he's speaking about the importance of earnestly
Contending for the faith as you look there in chapter
There's one chapter in the book of Jude
But you look in verse number four
After he tells them in verse number three that were to earnestly contend for the faith
Which was once delivered unto the Saints he tells them in verse number four for there were certain men that crept in
Unawares and he tells them that they do this they turn the grace of God into lasciviousness
You know what lasciviousness is it's not a word that we use commonly in our language today, but that word means unbridled lust
Every man doing that which is right in his own sight basically
Unbridled lust do we not live in a day and age in which we can see lasciviousness
That we can see the unbridled lust in our society in our culture today
And we find that this is what's taking place. You can read we won't take time to go there this evening
You can read Romans chapter number one and you can see some of the description of the depravity of man
And you can see how it's described by Paul there in Romans chapter number one and we find the corruption of mankind
God says that he saw the wickedness of man that it was great in the earth
Notice he says that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil
continually
Not only do we see the corruption
We see the coming judgment the corruption of mankind, but you I want you to notice the coming judgment
By the way this evening. I'm thankful that our God is long-suffering. Aren't you in?
fact in second excuse me in first Peter chapter number three in verse number 20 Peter
References the long-suffering of God with regard to the exact passage of Scripture that we're studying this evening with Noah preaching
And he talks about the long-suffering of God
But can I tell you this evening that it is important for us to know that he is just and he will judge with righteous
Judgment, there are times that we could even say with those saints in the book of Revelation. How long Oh Lord
I mean, when is the judgment going to come we can rejoice that our God is long-suffering
But we can be assured of the fact that judgment will indeed come in verse number three
The Lord said my spirit shall not always strive with man
For that he is also flesh
For that. He also is flesh. Excuse me. Yet his day shall be in
120 years and really we're finding here that in verse number three that God is
Announcing his coming judgment
It would be about a hundred and twenty years as Noah was preparing that ark to the saving of his family
That then judgment would come upon the earth and how it would destroy all that God had created
We find that it was God that was giving us in verse number six
It tells us that it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth notice
It says it grieved him at his heart
God's dealings with mankind are dependent upon man's actions
What do I mean by that? Well God was going to destroy Nineveh
Do you believe that?
Do you believe that God was going to destroy Nineveh?
He told Jonah go into Nineveh and preach 40 days and Nineveh shall be
Destroyed you think God was gonna do it?
Absolutely
Nineveh was the capital of Assyria is wicked
Wicked place so wicked. In fact that Jonah didn't want to go
And then after Jonah had his little detour
He went in a hurry and then after there was revival in Nineveh, he was disappointed, right?
But but why did God not destroy Nineveh?
Because they repented
Because they heard the message what a simple message
40 days Nineveh shall be destroyed
Simple message to the point. Amen, and they repented in sackcloth and ashes from the king all the way down
I mean they got busy you read you read the book of Jonah in the third chapter and you see how they
Respond to the preaching the Word of God and how they got real serious about that message that they received and we find that God's
Dealings with mankind are dependent upon his actions if the people of Nineveh said yeah, whatever Jonah get out of here
They'd have been destroyed in 40 days
Amen, but because they repented then God didn't destroy them
And
So we find that God's dealings with mankind are dependent upon his actions notice
It says here that it grieved him at his heart in that strong language
You know, what's amazing to me is
That the New Testament tells us as
Believers in Ephesians 4 and verse number 30 that we can grieve the Holy Spirit of God
You understand the Holy Spirit is God. We believe in the Trinity
We understand that truth this evening
but Ephesians chapter before in verse number 30 when we look at that principle that is
Given there throughout the latter part of Ephesians 4 as the Apostle Paul is telling them put off the old put on the new
Here's what that looks like. Let me give you the instruction. Let me give you the illustration
He tells him in verse number 30 and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God
Whereby ye are sealed into the day of redemption
Redemption
the Bible tells us here in Genesis 6 in verse number 6 that the
behavior of mankind the actions of his creation
they they so
They were so wicked. It was so ungodly that the Bible tells us that it grieved him at his heart
Then notice what he says
in verse 7 the Lord said I
Will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth
The impending judgment upon his creation. Once again, we understand the truth that God is creator
That truth is of course being attacked
Left and right these days
We find that it's over and over and as I've mentioned to you as we've studied through the book of Genesis
That the truth of God being creator is not just simply
Confined in the Word of God to Genesis 1 Genesis 2. It's all throughout the scriptures
We find it here in Genesis 6, but we find it all throughout the Word of God and here it says I will destroy man whom
I have created
Notice it says from the face of the earth, but notice the extent of this destruction of this impending judgment
This is both man and beast and creeping thing and the fowls of the air
For
Repent of me that I have made them
We find that the destruction was going to be far-reaching. We find that it was going to be a catastrophic event
We understand as we'd study the scriptures and as we are
Familiar with the next couple of chapters here in the book of Genesis that how God would destroy them is through the flood
We find that God did exactly what he said he was going to do
Why because mankind did not repent I'm thankful and we'll deal with it next week as we look at verses 8 through 13
That Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord
I'm thankful that there was a
remnant if you will that there was someone that though he lived in a society of great wickedness and
and all that was going on that there was someone that that walked with God as the Bible tells us in verse number 9 and
This evening as we were to understand this impending judgment
We're mindful of the truth this evening that God will one day judge again
He promised that he wouldn't judge the earth with a flood. I
Know that I've kind of
jokingly sarcastically sarcastically
Spoken about some of those that say that we're gonna be overcome by a flood and all these types of things
God promised it wasn't gonna happen
Amen, I don't need to concern myself with it because God said it wasn't gonna happen
He put a rainbow up there and he said that was his sign
You believe God I believe him
He's not gonna destroy it but he does tell us in 2nd Peter that he's gonna it's gonna melt with a fervent heat
Amen, and it tells us this in Hebrews 9 in verse 27 as it appointed unto man wants to die
But after this the judgment the Bible records for us and really it tells us of two judgments the judgment seat of Christ the Bema
If you will and that's the judgment for those of us that have been born again that we are washed in the blood of the
Lamb, and we're gonna stand before God
I'm thankful that I will not stand at the great white throne judgment. That's the other judgment that's mentioned for mankind
It's recorded for us in Revelation 20 verses 11 through 15
And I'm thankful and you ought to be thankful if you're saved this evening that you know
The Lord Jesus is your personal Savior that you will not stand at the great white throne
Judgment because the only verdict that that judgment is this they were cast in the lake of fire
What a sad sad commentary
But you know, there's a lot of people today that think they're getting away with something
They don't give heed to the preaching of the Word of God
You seek to be a testimony in your workplace even as I spoke about this morning
You seek to be a testimony in your family in your neighborhood wherever it is that you find yourself and over and over and over
Repeatedly we get people that don't want to hear it. They think that they're okay. They think they're escaping something
They have this idea that I didn't get judged yet
and I've been doing all of this and can I tell you that sometimes even the people of God that have been under the sound of
Preaching the Word of God. They can be deceived into thinking that they're getting away with something the long-suffering of God ought never be
Just misunderstood as being God's approval
In this evening
Just as those folks that were mentioned here in Genesis 6
Just as they were there during that time and the ark is being prepared as we'll study the next several weeks on Sunday evenings
And we'll see what's taking place. They did not give heed to the preaching
But can I tell you that when that door shut and the rain started coming? I think they had different thoughts, don't you?
It's too late
It's too late. See judgment is coming. Can I tell you this evening?
That ought to motivate us
To understand listen as Noah being a preacher of righteousness. He understood that God was going to destroy. I
Mean he knew the judgment was coming
It'll cause us to have some passion in our
Our outreach and our preaching and try to reach people with the truth. Why because we know what's coming
And we we have been given this ministry we've been given this responsibility we know the terror of the Lord I
Warn people of impending judgment. It's amazing to me
That many times as we would consider the the the
lives that we live and the things that we
Encounter and we experience in life when there's some sort of danger that is lurking ahead
Something physically that might cause us harm. We're pretty good at warning other people
right
Brother Armando, you guys went out camping and there was a rattlesnake
Brother, I had a shot that thing. I
Said did you have your gun with you? He said yeah, I said you didn't shoot that thing
He's like no, I there's other people up there man. I had a shot that thing
I I would have emptied it. I would have made sure it was dead. Amen. I don't like snakes and especially not rattlesnakes
Them things are nasty
Back to the story
You know what Armando told me he did he warned other people on the trail
Hey, I saw a rattlesnake up there. Isn't that what you told me? I
Saw a rattlesnake over there. Be careful. Why because he wants to warn somebody
I'm not that's a great great thing to do
But what about eternal judgment and I'm not saying that he doesn't do that. I'm just saying what about eternal judgment
What about the fact that mankind's gonna stand before God?
We know that to be the case
Amen
Noah
Will deal with him more next week as to
What he did and how he walked with God
This evening as we see the corruption of mankind in the coming judgment
see
Our God is a righteous God. He's a holy God
And this evening we have to understand that just as the flood came
Just as God did what he said he was going to do. Jesus is coming again
And we find that when he comes
The season of tribulation that you read of in the scriptures in the book of Revelation
There's no walk in the park
God's wrath is poured out upon mankind and then it just gets worse
Amen, you read the book of Revelation. How many of you read the book of Revelation? Come on
Judgment is gonna come this evening. We can learn a historical account
Genesis chapter number six. It's true. It happened. It's what God says. This is the cause of the flood. This is what he observed
This evening would it be so that in our lives that we would learn lessons and apply it to us
Would it be that this evening we'd say I never want to grieve God with my behavior
Because the Bible gives us the warning grieve not the Holy Spirit in Ephesians 4 and verse number 30
God helped me to live my life as he says in Ephesians 5 and verse number 10. Well pleasing in thy sight
Let's pray father. We love you this evening. We thank you for loving us
Thank you for the Word of God
The truth that's contained therein. We pray God that you would help us
To not only understand the historical account of that which is given to us in Genesis 6
But as we understand the words of Jesus how that he gave
Answer to those that were seeking signs and of the times that he gives reference back to the time of Noah
And God even as we live today
we begin to see things that are taking place in our society and we see the
Corruption and we see the the unbridled lust and Lord
I pray it help us to stay faithful to thee help us to walk with thee Lord help us to obey thee
Help us Lord to have a passion to reach those that we would come into contact with
Understanding with the surety that judgment is indeed coming
I pray God that you would stir us up and that you'd change us God that you'd give us a passion to reach those
You'd allow our paths to cross
Understanding that every single person that we encounter will one day stand before God
Help us Lord to live
With that understanding. I pray thee to bless the time of invitation
I pray that as we have an opportunity to respond to the truth of thy word that you would work in our hearts and lives
Help us Lord to say yes Lord. Yes
Help us to allow you to have your way in our lives for it's in Christ's name. We pray would you stand with me?